if you want to print money out of thin
air with your email list then this video
is for you I talk to at least 5 to 10 7
and8 figure e-commerce brand owners
every single week and one of the most
asked questions I have is hey I have a
ton of email profiles but I don't know
what to do with all of them should I
just send an email to all of them to try
to get them back how do I get these
people to actually buy and that's what
I'm going to be addressing in this video
so let's just get into it okay so
Reviving your dead email profiles if you
have a ton profiles that you don't know
what to do with then this is for you
blueprint to winning unengaged emails
back and engaging them as brand
activists and active buyers so let's get
into it there's some information on me
if you want this dock it will be in the
description for you join my newsletter
it's free you'll get a 75 page guide on
email marketing when you sign up but
people are unengaged for a reason
there's a reason that they're unengaged
okay you messed up already don't think
that you can get them all back you
messed up already admit it by not
actively sending to your list and
keeping them engaged you've lost
engagement and that is your flaw number
one so if you're hoping I could give you
a magic trick that automatically gets
everybody back turns them into raving
fans I'm sorry you already messed up
we're just going to try to recover as
much as we can from your major mess up
in dealing with these lists I found that
only around 20% is or so will come back
the remaining are gone forever if you
have 50,000 email profiles then you
might be able to get like 10,000 of them
to come back engaged but the rest are
just gone forever and you're never going
to get them back sorry I hate to be the
bearer of bad news so don't lose sleep
over these subscribers who aren't
interested anymore it's okay it's more
harmful to spend so much time and effort
try to get these people back when so few
will if you're sending to these
unengaged people often you're continuing
to send to them and worry about them
you're going to hurt your deliverability
and impact your ability to land in the
main inbox cuz if you're sending to
people who don't care about your brand
aren't opening your emails then you're
just going to hurt your deliverability
because Gmail is going to see that not a
lot of people are opening your emails
and then you're going to you're going to
end up in the spam folder so people are
unengaged for a reason don't expect to
get all of them back so these these next
few minutes is going to be if you
already actively send emails you're
already sending like two to three emails
a week ideally you're sending at least
semi regularly maybe like once a week um
and you have an Engaged part of your
life but you have like a ton of extra
profiles that are unengaged and you
don't know what to do with them this is
what's for you if you've never sent an
email before and you just have a ton of
uh profiles then skip ahead for a few
minutes and I'm going to have stuff for
that but this if you already actively
send emails you have like 50,000 people
who are unaged that they want to get
back so do not do not do not just blast
an email to your unengaged profiles no
inbox providers monitor open rates and
engagement rates and spikes and sending
and all this stuff they they monitor
that stuff and you don't want to get
flagged for being spammy they use this
data to determine if you were spammy or
reputable so if less than like 50% of
people that you send emails to actually
open your emails less than that so say
you get 30% opens you look spammy and
increase the rate at which you land in
the spam fold which we do not want and
having three out of 10 people who
receive your email actually open that's
not a lot of people if you think about
it and so um that's not a good look in
the ads of like Google so if you send an
email blast to thousands of people who
aren't actively engaging with your
emails you're going to get terrible
engagement numbers you will raise red
flags in the eyes of inbox providers so
you have to be very very very very
careful do not just blast an email to
your unengaged profiles okay you have to
be very strategic this is what I
recommend only send to your engag list
for 95% of sense so say you have a
90-day engaged email list depends on
your brand but typically that's what I
recommend have a 90-day engaged list
meaning anybody who's open an email in
the past 90 days um and that's just like
your base sending don't send to anybody
else if somebody hasn't open an email in
90 days we're not going to bother
sending to them cuz they probably
already forgot about us maybe they
switched to email addresses I don't know
we don't want to send to these people
who aren't engaged because they're going
to hurt our deliverability so 95% of
sends we're just sending to the 90-day
engage list not even worrying about
everybody else and if you aren't in that
group My Philosophy is I don't want to
be sending emails to people who don't
care about my brand and just continue to
hurt my reputation in inbox placement
rate cuz they're not going to open my
emails why am I going to keep sending to
them so consistently and hurt my
reputation so we typically send like
three to four emails per week to this
segment the 90-day engage list bringing
value uh to generate Revenue
consistently the other 5% one out of 20
emails
what do we do we don't just send to just
the unengaged people all at once no that
is going to hurt our our spam rate is
going to spike in terms of like in our
open rate is going to just massively dip
just send to the whole newsletter
anybody who's open an email at least
once overall time that's what I like to
do if somebody's never open an email I'm
not going to bother cuz it's probably a
fake email but for the other 5% once a
month let's just send an email to the
whole list this way we're getting those
extra people involved but we're still
getting engagement from our engaged
people so instead of just being the
90-day engag we're sending to the whole
entire list all at at the same time so
that our engagement rates don't
absolutely plummet we're still getting
the 90-day engaged people who are
receiving that email and are engaging
with it so that's literally all that you
need to do send to your whole list for
5% of sent don't separate up the emails
and blast them all to unengaged profiles
just add them to your regular email we
just want to add them every so often to
a regular campaign to try to re-engage
them some people will come back and
that's great so 90-day engage list plus
the unengaged list equals the whole list
send to the whole list if unengaged list
members open the email they're autom
going to join the 90day engag segment
which automatically is tracking when
somebody opens an email and they're just
going to start receiving your consistent
emails they're sending three times a
week awesome perfect that's exactly what
we want they're just automatically added
back to our pool of regular uh campaigns
it is a good idea to send like the
biggest and most important emails to the
whole list when you are the 5% of sends
that you are doing to the whole list
don't make it a random blog email make
it one of the important ones like a sale
announcement or a new product drop or
something like that um something major
um try to prioritize those ones for when
you send to the whole list just send
regular emails don't try to do some
crazy unengaged member like are you
still interested yada y if I received an
email from someone and they ask me am I
still am I still interested it's
automatically going to be like no so we
just want to send to them make them
forget that they un that they aren't
engaged make it seem like normal like
they've been subscribed to us and
they're just now seeing us in the inbox
cuz they haven't seen the other stuff
pretend like you've been sending them
consistently don't make a big deal out
of starting to send them more emails
just add them onto an important sale a
new product email if they open it cool
they're back in the engage list we're
sending them more cont if they don't
they'll catch us on the next one the
next month that we send to the full list
so that's literally it for if you have
people if you have a ton of unengaged
people just once a month send the whole
list don't over complicate it keep it as
simple as possible nice and simple okay
make that a regular part of your
strategy and then this next part of the
video is for if you've never sent emails
before or are like very very low volume
like maybe you send an email like once a
year for like Christmas or a couple
times a year and you have like 100,000
profiles you're like what the heck do I
do with all these profiles I want to
start sending consistently or I want to
make some money out of these people this
is what we're doing so you have to warm
up your IP and your domain so you can't
just step onto the scene take a fresh
email address and send to 50,000 people
all at once you're going to get marked
to spam very fast if you're just fresh
thrown onto the street send to a ton of
people you're spam you have to build up
a reputation with inbox providers you
have to slowly ramp up content so that
you can land in the inbox when you send
50,000 to 50,000 people all at once so
we have to slowly ramp things up ramp
volume up over time so what do we do we
start small start with sending to 200
people from the list then we open it to
400 then 800 Etc you just keep either
doubling or increasing by 50% is um
that's really all it takes it's just
slowly warming things up monitor your
open rates try to stay above 40 to 50%
but really the only thing that these
inbox providers are looking for that
they're most looking for when you're
warming up is and by warming up it's
just you starting to send emails um they
just want to see consistency and they
want want to see volume so you need to
be consistent and you need to start
sending volume you're going to start off
with bad open rates it's okay stick to
the plan open the list up double it
increase by 50% every single time and
make sure to keep sending to the people
who do open your prior emails so if 50
people from the 200 here open the email
we're going to add them we're just going
to make sure that they they receive the
next set of emails cuz they're going to
continue to open and boost your
reputation so that's kind of like the
concept of warming up a new IP in
sending domain um which if you have a
new sending domain it's a new IP if
you're just switching to clavio you're
switching like um email service
providers um anytime you switch
providers it's a new IP so if you're
going from MailChimp to clavo clavio to
send Lane you have to warm things up
because it's a new IP even if it's the
same domain okay so this is the process
for warming up a new IP sending domain
First Step get high engagement flows
live that we know people are going to
open with the warm-up process is all
about building our reputation by getting
engagement so let's get live the flows
that we know people are going to these
flows will just over time they're going
to be sending emails for us
automatically we're not sending a ton of
emails at once that's not how flows work
flows are the automated emails that Fire
based on a customer's action such as
somebody um abandons cart and so it's
going to be slow build up so this
ensures engagement in steady sending
means a gradual warm-up so we want to
get these high engagement flows live as
soon as we can and then two we need to
locate our segments that we think have a
high likelihood of Engagement if you
haven't been sending emails you likely
don't have good engagement data um um so
you want to do this at you want to do
this in this applies the no engagement
data it applies to uh the example I'm
going to show later in the video um but
High likelihood of Engagement so people
who have like placed an order recently
they probably are more likely to engage
um anybody who opened an email on like
your other platform whatever it may be
if somebody's been active on site we
want to use that so find these segments
and start sending three to four times
per week to these small list and do the
ramp of period that I was talking about
slowly start opening up your list this
is the whole process so step one a
little bit more in depth set live your
high engagement flows so people are
going to engage with welcome emails
browse abandoned emails card abandon
post purchase emails the emails that
people were active on your site and they
did something especially like postp
purchase someone just bought from you
they're very likely to open an email
from you right after they buy abandoned
C somebody was just on your site 30
minutes later you send them a message
they're probably going to click that
someone views a product somebody just
signs up to your email list we want to
get these built out ASAP and set these
live so that we can
we want to get these built out and set
live ASAP so that we can be um be
getting this Enga these engagement
numbers um it's just going to boost our
reputation plus flows are triggered
randomly as people enter the flow um and
it's just low volume we're not blasting
a ton of emails at once it's slow a
person abandoned card at 2 p.m. another
at 3:40 whatever it may be um so these
are the main flows that you want to set
live um get these and get these going so
that you can start slowly boosting your
engagement while that's going on we need
to locate our segments that we think are
the highest likelihood of Engagement cuz
we want to start sending to the people
who are the highest engaging so if you
had sent one email in the past you can
include past open and click data to
predict is this person um engaged have
they engaged before some other things
that you can track like placed order how
many placed orders the recency of the
placed order did somebody buy within two
months has somebody bought five times
overall time and they're likely to open
our emails somebody's viewed a product
had been active on site whatever it may
be these are like some starting points
for we did this process recently for a
brand took them from 0 to 31k a month
these were like some of the segment
definitions that we were looking at um
after we got things going like opened
email at least once over all time versus
30 days warm-up list clicked email over
all time um and they were added recently
to the email list in the last 3 365 days
um they placed an order and they've
opened an email so a little bit even
more engaged place order in the last x
amount of days whatever we had to do to
find get at least some gauge on the
engagement um so you can see this is
what like we kind of did here and
started off at like 1,300 people in this
warming up list of clicked email at
least once and they uh subscribed within
the last 365 days started off sending to
like 200 people from this and then we
400 600 and then we got to this number
and then we moved on to like um
something like one of these whatever it
may be so find your segments that you
think are the highest likelihood of
Engagement and then start sending your
campaigns and opening the list so using
the data from the prior step just start
sending first to 200 or 400 people warm
up open up by 50% to 100% every single
time 800,00 Etc and slowly increase as
you go and just once you get to like
1,500 to 2,000 people then send to that
group a couple times establish who's
cons continuing to open your emails and
then start opening up again but really
don't over complicate it these are just
like guidelines slowly ramp things up
you're going to be fine trust me um and
use clavio gradual send over several
hours feature to slowly send the email
to users over four to six hours which
you can find here once you go to send an
email inside of clavio you can see
schedule or send now and change the type
to gradual send over a few hours and
what this will do is rather than sending
say it's going to a th000 people rather
than sending to a th000 people at once
if we're sending to 20% of the list once
per hour then it'll send to 200 people 1
hour then it'll send to the next 200
people an hour later the next 200 an
hour later and y y y so slowly warm
things up and use cio's gradual send
feature how often do you want to send
send three emails per week three per
week we need volume to boost our
reputation a lot of people think like oh
if I have bad reputation then we can't
send that often no these inbox providers
are looking for volume they're looking
for consistency they're looking for
reputable senders people who will send
so we need to boost our reputation as
fast as possible by doing that so don't
overthink your email content give them
good valuable content like how to use
this product tips for XYZ product
features product facts social proof like
this testimonial this testim whatever it
may be three times per week here's a
training on high engaging email
campaigns I have another video on this
which you can find in the description
just non- discount email campaigns um
that you can send there's tons of ideas
here and of course this doesn't want to
load but this is right here the number
one e-commerce email marketing strategy
that uses zero zero discounts this is 60
Pages gives you a ton of ideas um so
these are the types of emails that we
want to send three times per week and
just look at this full warm-up process
example that we went through and look at
like this whole process like warm-up
process that we went through for this
client so we took them from they were on
another platform we brought them to
clavio we had no engagement data and we
were like okay fresh domain fresh IP
what do we do first we got live the
flows we followed this exact plan we got
live the flows we started to get some
decent engagement there starting to
slowly warm up our reputation and then
you can see we are using like this
specific segment someone has placed
order and they've opened email at least
once over all time then we took a
segment of that list and we sent and
look at 139 recipients 20% open rates 1%
click rates these are just regular tips
emails social proof things like that and
then we open it up a little bit
potential purchasers VIP customers open
it up a little bit still got 20% opens
260 people now slowly you can see kind
of the content the segments we were
using you can see things slowly start to
rise 730 55 clicks 26 clicks and then a
th000 people here we're still staying at
20% opens but now we've kind of
established who are the people opening
our emails from the small segment so we
continue to send to them we continue to
warm things up and look at the dates May
4th 2nd April 29th 27th see 21 people
2100 people and then 2,800 4,900 now
we're getting like 37% opens we're
working things up 4,900 okay now we're
at 5,000 8,000 6,000 6,000 5,000 look at
the open rates now we have a solid list
we have over 10,000 people that we're
actively sending to and getting 67 6,000
opens right here 57% and at that point
it's just about consistently slowly
continuing to raise the list 90-day
engage plus 90day engage opened all time
a specific contact list that we uploaded
and now we've got 15 ,000 people opening
that and you can see the revenue 1400
396 214 1300 and we ended up doing 31
Grand in the first month with flows so
this is just like a perfect represent
representation to show you how simple it
is don't over complicate it just
continue follow the plan slowly ramp
things up prove that you send a volume
to these inbox providers and you'll
slowly build up a reputation so read
this Doc and watch this video below for
more info on this account so it's
$31,000 43% of revenue from email so 7%
increase in total store Revenue uh
during this time in this ramp up period
um so I'll have it in the description
taking a fresh clavo account um go watch
it it gives you a little bit more
information so follow the process stick
to the plan don't over complicate it
seems overwhelming but it's really
really simple slowly ramp up content
focus on your already engaged profiles
every so often send to your whole list
that's really all that we want to do so
that's it for this one thanks for
reading watching um I hope you got some
value from it join my free daily
newsletter actionable tips Yad y y tons
of good stuff there 75 page Gad on email
marketing when you sign up but again
thank you so much for watching hope you
got some value from it and I will see
you in the next one